---
title: "Mindfulness? "
date: 2026-02-11
description: "Mindfulness..."
category: 'Calcutta'
published: true
color: "black"
---

<TTS />

When people talk about mindful meditation, or mindfulness in general, I think of writing, because it is when I write that I can consciously focus on the subtle nuances that rivet the unconscious streams of thought spanning across the littered mindscape of my bipolar mind. It is in writing that the noticing can happen, that I can label them and quiet them, and in some cases turn the volume knobs all the way down to mute. Sometimes the writing does roil and muddy things and bring up more unpleasantness and more visitors to the conscious than I would like, but that’s why my posts are unreadable, unpopular—just scribbles strewn on the internet that are ignored in the way people ignore beggars and invalids. True feelings and honest scruples and emotions have no place in the main glittering thoroughfares or polished glass palaces; they, like me, live hidden and huddled in the shanty boondocks of the third-world periphery, where no one can be bothered to look, lest they be disgusted.

And it’s whatever irritates me inside that I can sort of sift through in words, or at least try to. Most of the time I fail, but at least that’s what I do, like now. I can’t focus. I can’t sketch. I’m irritated, I’m angry, I’m depressed—I’m all these things all at once. And although I can try to focus on my breathing, and it calms me down to a certain extent, the things in the iceberg of the subconscious are far too huge to be handled so easily. I am not trying to make light of mindfulness meditation; it has its place in the attenuation of the default mode network, but when the underlying pathology is severe, that alone may not alleviate the disease. It may reduce the symptoms temporarily, is what I am saying.

And I don’t like the cottage industry of lewd larceny, bogosity, and religiosity mixed in with meditation. You really don’t need to pay to listen to the halitosis caked claptrap of an Indian guru or a Tibetan bald thinks-he-knows-it-all or any other pretentious prick these days. The whole exercise is pretty darn simple even if you are stupid: just focus on your breath, and when your mind wanders, bring it back to your breath again. And because breathing is an autonomic process and internal to the brain, the switching is natural. It is also one of the most boring things to focus on, so your mind will want to wander, which is why, once you get a little practice in this, you can even catch yourself focusing on listening in on bizarrely boring business meetings that would previously have sent you off snoring. I, of course, don’t have to bother with human interaction much. I try to stay away from homo sapiens; they trigger my bipolarity. My place is with Calcutta cats, dogs, wall geckos, roaches, and spiders—that’s my safety net. I only look at people from a distance now, or through a smartphone. Hideously dangerous apes, I tell you.

Attaching a cheery, superfluous, condiment-filled complement that most bloggers feel obliged to add is another itch I want to scratch now that I am writing on it, as you may have noticed by my being feral and outcast I don’t have any of the usual indoctrinated obligations that subservient, muttering minions to society seem to have. Meditation, by and large, like exercise, is an unnatural way to tame an already synthetic lifestyle that’s far beyond the caveman algorithm; nothing we do in our day-to-day lives is what our bodies and minds are built to do, and also perversely and quite ironically the mitigation strategies that we adopt as compensatory mechanisms aren’t natural either. Anyway, already this post is long and my tea is getting cold, and I’m sure I’ve made many reading this promise they’ll never read my posts again. But anyway, it’s 4 a.m., it’s sort of still dark, I just came back after defecating a log, made some tea, don’t know what else to do. Maybe I’ll stop writing now.

These are the last few mornings that are going to be pleasantly cool, because in a fiendishly short blip the Calcutta weather calculus will flip, where the humidity and temperature between day and night will stay close for a stagnant, indifferent while. Of course, what changes are the plaintives, from the polluted smog of early morning to the unbearable muggy heat all through the day. My life won’t change a bit. I’ll just turn 51 this April, my scrotum droop closer still to the floor, start drooling when I open my mouth. Already I look like a hobo who collects his daily nourishment from the nearby garbage dump, so this year that haggard look will get more grizzled and sharp, maybe picked up by some of the 4K, 8K poverty-porn foreigner cams that stroll the streets looking for a topic to send back home for the people tucked away in heaps of money to wank to an orgasm—ahhh, the face of a forlorn, hungry Bengali on the windowsill, out come oozing wads of Scandinavian cum, or wherever they may be watching it from.

I, of course, have no problem with this, except that imagine a few light-years away an alien ship, shaped phallus-like, has already sent a death pulse and is now recording the whole situation, including this orgasm, because right after it the whole planet will melt into a puddle of pus. That’s alien entertainment for you.



